# Durock T1 - Tactile
## One Very Tactile Switch
Throughout my time building keyboards, I always leaned towards a linear switch. Seeing as I almost always bottom out my keys witches, having a tactile switch always felt like I was just using a really dirty and scratchy linear. Before purchasing the Durock T1, I had tried a few tactile switches, including sets of Gateron Browns and Tecsee Sapphires, neither of which I enjoyed in the slightest as well as some higher quality ones from friends, like the ever popular Boba U4T.

Despite this, After building so many linear keyboards I felt that there was a distinct gap in my collection; and gap that I wanted to fill. Because of this, I began looking for a special tactile switch, and decided that if I was going to pick a tactile switch, I wanted the most tactile switch I could. This is because it was going to be used in an HHKB layout Tofu60 2.0, where my goal was to recreate a topre HHKB board using a standard cherry switch. When looking for an extremely tactile switch, I eventually found the Durock T1. I ordered a set, and threw them in the board.

### Holy Tactility.
Now, before this I did not realize that most of the switches I had tried before were relatively mellow tactile switches, and I quickly learned that the Durock T1 is in a bit of a league of its own. It is a bit hard to demonstrate how tactile these switches are without being able to hand over a keyboard using them. It is genuinely a bit difficult to press down a key WITHOUT continuing to bottom out the switches. However, after getting used to them after a few months (since I use this keyboard whenever I am doing large amounts of typing, such as creating this hobby collection) I have seen distinct improvements in my typing abilities. Being so extremely tactile makes touch typing way easier, since I can comfortably rest my fingers on the switches without any risk of accidentally depressing the switch. Additionally, the bump has allowed me to break my habit of bottom out switches when typing which has improved my overall speed. The switches in this board has single handedly made me a faster and more accurate typist. Additionally, these switches are very smooth for a tactile. I did have to lube them myself to account for the leaf ping (mentioned later) but even stock they do feel quite smooth (at least for a tactile switch).

### The Issues with Tactile Switches
While the feel of this switch is superb, I have more than a few gripes with it as a whole; and most of these gripes are inherent flaws with a tactile style switch. These all come together to real form out my thoughts on the Durock T1 as a whole, and the situation in which I think it thrives.

#### Leaf Ping
One very common issue with some more intense tactile switches in leaf ping, which is where the tactile bump causes the leaf of the switch to momentarily stop touching the switch stem, and them it comes back into contact a sound is produced. [This video by Keybored on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PZDwj1TWsxU) does a great job at explaining what exactly leaf ping is, why it happens, and how to fix it. Now with my Durock T1's I went through the effort of trying to fix this issue, but unfortunately these switches are just so tactile that I was not able to eliminate the ping without also significantly sacrificing the feel of the switch. This ends up being my number one gripe, since even with a large amount of foam the overall sound of the keyboard is still honestly quite poor due to how much this ping affects the overall tone of this switch.

#### Typing Fatigue
This may just be a personal issue, but the extreme tactility of these switches has lead to some significant fatigue to my fingers while typing. Between having a higher spring weight that most other switches I tend to like and also having such a strong tactile bump makes this keyboard feel like quite the finger workout after using it for a few hours in a day. I initially attempted to remedy this by spring-swapping in a lower weight of spring, but found that swapping in a lighter spring actually introduced issues with the spring being able to return the switch stem past the tactile bump. This means that if I tried to use a lighter spring, there was the potential of the switch not coming back up when pushed down. Far from ideal. Because of this, I have just kept the stock springs, forcing myself to increase my fingers' typing endurance.

### Overall Thoughts
In the end I feel that this is a switch with a very specific use case. When using this switch without headphones, the issues of leaf ping are completely nullified at the expense of not being able to hear the keyboard at all (which could be good or bad depending on your preferences). Additionally, this switch does NOT work for a gaming build. Constantly pressing the same few keys over and over would be tiring FAST, and the large bump would introduce unnecessary delay in key actuation compared to a lightweight linear. In the end I think that the Durock T1 is an amazing switch, so long as you don't want the keyboard to sound good and don't mind building your finger strength.