# The KBDFans Tofu60 2.0
## A Gift, and One For Myself
In the summer of 2024, I was looking for a gift to get my girlfriend of almost two years for her birthday. Conveniently, she had made it relatively easy for me; every time I talked to her about keyboards I was met with the response "When are you going to make me a keyboard?" Well, for your birthday this summer I suppose.

When looking for boards for her, I did have a few criteria in mind. I wanted something compact, but with an extremely standard layout, which made me look towards the 60% and 65% layouts. Another criteria I had in mind was buying from a reputable manufacturer and distributor, which for this board ruled out a lot of options. Eventually I landed on the KBDFans Tofu65. I have purchased from KBDFans multiple times, always having great experiences with customer support (I once received a dead PCB that they replaced for free with express overseas shipping) and their shipping times are always accurate and short. Additionally, the Tofu lineup is a pretty time-tested keyboard line that I have always seen good reviews for. When I went to order it however, I noticed that they had a pretty big sale on both the Tofu lineup as well as reduced shipping costs when ordering over a certain value. This meant that, in addition to getting her a Tofu65, I could get myself a Tofu60 2.0 for only about $100 extra considering the sales and reduced shipping costs by spending more.

Unfortunately this was an absolute no brainer for me, and thus I had purchased myself a Tofu60 2.0.

## Silicone Bowls, That's a New One
One of the things that is very interesting about the modern Tofu lineup from KBDFans is the wide range out mounting options. This keyboard lets you do a somewhat standard top mount, a pretty standard gasket mount, and then a final mounting mechanism that I had never seen before. They call it a silicone bowl mount, and it works very similar to a gasket mount, except the keyboard plate is resting on little semi spheres of silicone that can compress to give a similar softness to a foam gasket. What's different is that the kit includes three different weights of this silicone bowl so that the user can hone the feel however they want, which makes each board significantly more customizable. However, I did encounter during the build process that these silicone bowls are quite finicky when first putting the board together. The bowls have a small stem that is inserted into the keyboards plate, without any sort of retention mechanism. This means that to put the PCB inside the case, you must either hold onto eight tiny bowl while lowing it into the case, or place the bowls first and then line up the eight tiny stems with the plate while plugging in the USBC daughterboard. Not fun.

### Using the Silicone Bowls
Once the keyboard has been assembled using these weird silicone bowls, the mechanism works quite well. It does a phenomenal job at preventing any sort of rattle inside the board, but the squishyness that I expected (like what is found in a more standard foam gasket mount) is not really present. Sure I can press down on the board and it does flex (in a remarkably uniform fashion, which is nice) but during normal typing the board does not feel that different from a top mount, although the very small amount of flex is still worlds better than a tray/bottom mount keyboard.

Additionally, it is worth noting that these observations were made entirely with the lightest bowls, allowing for the most flex. I can only imagine that using a stiffer silicone bowl would on further diminish the not very noticeable flexibility.

## Overall Quality
Stepping away from the mounting mechanism and feel of typing, the general quality of this board is quite impressive. Coming from a more large-scale manufacturer, the quality is impeccable and rivals that from a more boutique seller. However, this does not mean there are no shortcomings when compared to a more niche keyboard like Meletrix's Zoom line (which I have experience with).

My biggest gripe as a consumer actually doesn't have anything to do with the keyboard itself. I was sorely disappointed to learn that this keyboard does not come with a carrying case. This was something that I have started to see become more and more common on custom keyboard kits, and is a trend that I really like as it makes the protection and transport of the keyboard way easier. While the Tofu60 2.0 did include a very nice box with protective foam, I would've much preferred a custom fit carrying case instead.

As for the keyboard itself, I am thoroughly impressed with its quality given the price. [Being just around $100](https://kbdfans.com/products/tofu60-2-0) even today before shipping, this keyboard kit actually places itself in a realm where I could see myself recommending it to someone looking to step into the realm of nice custom keyboards. The finish of the case (my personal unit uses their e-coating finish) is very nice. The texture is fairly smooth for an e-coating which I like as it makes this board insanely easy to clean, as there aren't any microgrooves that hold in dirt and grime. Additionally, the fit and finish of all parts are quite good. Tolerances on both my Tofu60 2.0 and the Tofu65 that I bought for my girlfriend are phenomenal. Both boards fit together without issues, with both the case and internal components all fitting together perfectly.

## My Final Thoughts
Overall I would describe this keyboard as a great introduction to the keyboard hobby, with a wide range of mounting mechanisms for new users to experiment with and overall high quality at a low price. This is the dream keyboard I would have asked for 5 years ago, and I am ecstatic to see that there is a high quality low priced option for new typists to look to when trying to break into the keyboard niche. Going forward this will be one of the first boards I recommend to someone looking for a 60% keyboard in this price range instead of just buying something off the shelf. This board does a great job at making reccomending a full custom keyboard to others a lot easier, as I know I can tell them about a quality product that's easy to obtain and gives them a large range of possibilities for customization.