# The Meletrix / Wuque Studios' ZoomTKL
## My First Kit Board
Prior to this keyboard, every keyboard that I had built had been a combination of generic compatiable parts making the ZoomTKL my first foray into a full pre-made kit. This main boils down to the time between builds, as this keyboard was purchased about two years after my previous build, during which time the keyboard industry had shifted towards this high-quality premade bundle of everything except keycaps and switches. After my experiences with this specific kit, im inclined that the kit keyboard concept worked pretty well. During purchasing, you are able to select a pretty decent variety of parts such as case color, external weight design/color, PCB type, and plate. This all allows for one kit to produce a wide range of feels and sounds, meaning each customer can make the board exactly how they want. Compared to the previous time I had made a board, the prepackaging of parts made everything work much better. Tighter tolerances all around, much better packaging, and all for what was essentially the same price as my previous keyboard amalgamations.

## What Sets This Board Apart
While there is the obvious difference to me that this is a kit board, there is still some big things that set this kit apart when it first released; namely the back panel/external weight and its foam gasket mounting mechanism

### The Rear Panel
This keyboard includes a very special rear mounted weight. While adding weight to keyboards is far from new (due to subject sound changes and the idea that people associate weight with quality) but these weights are usually screwed inside of the keyboard. While the ZoomTKL did include a internal stainless steel weight as an optional purchase, part of the base keyboard that customers had to choose an option for was the rear external weight. This weight was offered in a wide variety of designs, such as a carbon fiber panel, various finishes of steel (such as black PVD coated steel), and various colors of steel-back glass panels (such as the blue option I chose on my ZoomTKL). This immediatly sets the board apart from others, as it gives a place for customization outisde of just the standard keycaps. There can be someone with the same gray ZoomTKL as I have, but between the weight choice and other additional parts they each end up looking entirely individual. One gripe with the weight that I have seen across units of this keyboard is fitment issues with some of the weight panels. Since the rear weight is separated into three seperate panels that are screw in, there are a large amount of edges that may not be machined properly, however my unit had no fitment issues when installing the rear weight.

### The Mounting Mechanism
One aspect of a keyboard that can have drastic changes on the feel is the way that the PCB/plate is mounted to the case. When I had first started building keyboards, the only common mounting mechanism was tray mount, where the PCB/plate is screw directly into the case. This creates a very solid and secure mount, which can make the keyboard feel very solid and well made. However, I found that after hours of use (namely while gaming) this hard mount style caused pain in the tips of my fingers, since I usually tend to type by bottoming out my keys leading to every keystroke being like slamming my fingertips against a block of aluminum. Once I saw that the ZoomTKL included a gasket mount (which was usually reserved for the highest quality/most expensive keybaords, like Wuque Studios' own PromiseTKL) I was sold. Sure other keyboards around this time were starting to adopt this mounting style, this was the first keyboard with it where the whole package had me interested. The benefit of this gasket mounting system is that it allows for a bit of flex within the keyboard. When pressing against the board as a whole, the foam gaskest give a bit, meaning that quick hard presses (like what I do whenever typing) would have a bit of cushion on the end.

## My Overall Thoughts
One thing that I have chose to omit from this little review is anything pertaining to the shipping/purchasing of this and other boards. This mostly is due to the wide range of experiences one can have, since the ZoomTKL is designed and built in China and then imported to the U.S. by a seperate company. While my shipment went fine through KeebsForAll, I have heard of others having significantly worse experiences even from the same vendor.

When I first got my hands on this board, I was thoroughly impressed. The kit cam with everything I could want, such as a full set of foams, a carrying case, all of the screws and screwdrivers needed for assembly/maintainence/changes, and all of the bits and bobs to set up any of the optional inclusions, such as using the foam gaskets or rubber pieces to remove rattle when not using them. The fit and finish of each and every one of these components was impressive as well. High quality screws, well organized packaging, nice foam, I cannot think of a single thing regarding the physical inclusions that I disliked with this board.

### The Feel
The overall feel of this board blew me away. I was designed it to be as flexible as possible since I knew that I would be using this keyboard for long periods of time and wanted to prevent any shock to my fingers. To do this, I optioned the flex-cut PCB (for more flex), the polycarbonate plate (which was the most flexible option, also did not directly attach the PCB and plate to increase flexibility) and used the foam gaskets during assembly. I also decided to not use one of the foams included, the foam to replace the battery/weight, as I found that the cavity created by omitting this foam bit caused even more flex. This came together to create my most comfortable keyboard that I have felt to date. I can press down on the board and see it depress significantly, but this doesn't make the board feel cheaply flexible but instead makes it feel like the keyboard is floating on a pillow. I am writing this page about two years after purchasing and building this board, and the ZoomTKL has almost removed me from the keyboard community, since I have only once felt a desire to build a follow up board. The flexible nature makes it extremely comfortable to use for long periods of time. The coating on the board is extremely durable, and even after running blue LEDS on/near the board for the entire time, there has been no color bleaching (an issue I have had on other keyboards, due to me always running blue lights). The weight of the keyboard (even without me purchasing the optional stainless steel weight) is phenomenal, and even people not interested in keyboards can see the quality of this kit once they pick it up or even feel its flex. 

## Conclusion
This board has made is incredibly easy for me to consider Meletrix/Wuque Studios keyboards from here on, but reccomending them is a bit difficult due to the somewhat high prices and long shipping lead times. I truly believe that an american manufacturer of this quality, even with a similar price, would take over the enthusiast keyboard market. The only person that I can really reccomend this kit/brand to is those already highly interested in the custom keyboard hobby.